Add specification for ReferenceHandling (#354)
dotnet/runtime: src/libraries/System.Text.Json/docs/ReferenceHandling_spec.md

* While stringifying, all Objects, including Arrays, and strings, are flattened out and replaced as unique index.
* Once parsed, all indexes will be replaced through the flattened collection.
* It has 23M downloads per month.
* Every single value (primitive and complex) is preserved.
* Cons:
  * It does not look like JSON anymore.

## Jackson (Java)
https://www.baeldung.com/jackson-bidirectional-relationships-and-infinite-recursion

* Let you annotate your class with @JsonIdentityInfo where you can define a class property that will be used to further represent the object.

## golang 

* (https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/187920/), The fix is about detecting circular references after a threshold of 1,000 and throw when found in order to prevent a non-recoverable Stack Overflow.

# Proposal

```cs
namespace System.Text.Json.Serialization
{
    /// <summary>
    /// This class defines the various ways the <see cref="JsonSerializer"/> can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.
    /// </summary>
    public sealed class ReferenceHandling
    {
        public static ReferenceHandling Default { get; }
        // TODO: decide if we keep or remove this option.

>         public static ReferenceHandling Ignore { get; }

Reviewer: nit: consider moving this after `Preserve` to it is clear that we may not expose it.

        public static ReferenceHandling Preserve { get; }
    }
}

namespace System.Text.Json
{
    public partial class JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        public ReferenceHandling ReferenceHandling { get; set; } = ReferenceHandling.Default;
    }
}
```
See also the [internal implementation details](https://gist.github.com/Jozkee/b0922ef609f7a942f00ac2c93a976ff1).

## In depth
* **Default**: 

>    * **On Serialize**: Throw a JsonException when MaxDepth is exceeded, this may occur by either a Reference Loop or by passing a very deep object. This option will not affect the performance of the serializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **On Serialize**: Throw a `JsonException` when `MaxDepth` is exceeded, this may occur by either a Reference Loop or by passing a very deep object. This option will not affect the performance of the serializer.
```

nit: Add back-ticks. Similar suggestion elsewhere we use S.T.Json types/concepts.

>    * **On Deserialize**: No effect.

Reviewer: Specify the details of the default/ignore behavior when deserializing (rather than stating "No effect.").

* Expose the `ReferenceResolver` in Converters to have access to the map of references.

* Create `JsonReferenceHandlingAttribute` to enable to annotate properties and classes with their own isolated ReferenceHandling behavior (I cut-off the support for this due the constant checking for attributes was causing too much perf overhead on the main path, maybe we can try moving the attribute check to the warm-up method to reduce the runtime increase).
```cs
// Example of a class annotated with JsonReferenceHandling attributes.
[JsonReferenceHandling(ReferenceHandling.Preserve)]
public class Employee { 
    string Name { get; set; }

    [JsonReferenceHandling(ReferenceHandling.Ignore)]
    Employee Manager { get; set; }
    
    List<Employee> Subordinates { get; set; }
}
```

## Compatibility

The next table show the combination of Newtonsoft's **ReferenceLoopHandling** and **PreserveReferencesHandling** and how to get its equivalent on System.Text.Json's *ReferenceHandling*:

|       RLH\PRH |      None |              All |          Objects |           Arrays |
|--------------:|----------:|-----------------:|-----------------:|-----------------:|

> |     **Error** | *Default* | future (overlap) | future (overlap) | future (overlap) |

Reviewer: Is overlap the right term here? What is the Newtonsoft.Json behavior for all these permutation? They aren't really undefined. Maybe say: low usage/awkward semantics?

|    **Ignore** |  *Ignore* | future (overlap) | future (overlap) | future (overlap) |
| **Serialize** |    future |       *Preserve* |           future |           future |

Notes: 
* Newtonsoft's `MetadataPropertyHandling.ReadAhead` will not be supported in this first effort.
* `Objects` and `Arrays` granularity may apply to both, Serialization and Deserialization.
* (overlap) means that Preserve References will co-exist with Reference Loop Handling; see [example](#using-a-custom-referencehandling-to-show-possible-future-usage).

# Examples

Having the following class:
```cs
class Employee 
{ 
    string Name { get; set; }
    Employee Manager { get; set; }
    List<Employee> Subordinates { get; set; }
}
```

> ## Using Ignore on Serialize

Reviewer: Add Default section as well (showcasing the throw/exception message)

  - [Using Preserve on Serialize](#using-preserve-on-serialize)
  - [Using Preserve on Deserialize](#using-preserve-on-deserialize)
- [Other languages](#other-languages)
  - [Newtonsoft.Json](#newtonsoftjson)
  - [dojo toolkit (JavaScript framework)](#dojo-toolkit-javascript-framework)
  - [flatted (JavaScript module) (probably not worth it)](#flatted-javascript-module-probably-not-worth-it)
  - [Jackson (Java)](#jackson-java)
  - [golang](#golang)
- [Ground rules](#ground-rules)
  - [Reference objects ($ref)](#reference-objects-ref)
  - [Preserved objects ($id)](#preserved-objects-id)
  - [Preserved arrays](#preserved-arrays)
  - [JSON Objects if not Collection (Class | Struct | Dictionary) - On Deserialize (and Serialize?)](#json-objects-if-not-collection-class--struct--dictionary---on-deserialize-and-serialize)
  - [JSON Object if Collection - On Deserialize](#json-object-if-collection---on-deserialize)
  - [Immutable types](#immutable-types)
  - [Value types](#value-types)
  - [Interaction with JsonPropertyNameAttribute](#interaction-with-jsonpropertynameattribute)
- [Future](#future)
- [Notes](#notes)

# Terminology

> **Reference loops**: also referred as circular references, occur when a property of the object refers to the object itself, directly (a -> a) or indirectly (a -> b -> a). They also occur when the element of an array refers to the array itself (arr[0] -> arr). Multiple occurrences of the same reference does not imply circularity.

Reviewer: nit: 
```suggestion
**Reference loops**: Also referred as circular references, loops occur when a property of a .NET object refers to the object itself, either directly (a -> a) or indirectly (a -> b -> a). They also occur when the element of an array refers to the array itself (arr[0] -> arr). Multiple occurrences of the same reference do not imply a cycle.
```

> **Preserve duplicated references**: Semantically represent objects and/or arrays whose have been previously written, with a reference to them in subsequent founds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Preserve duplicated references**: Semantically represent objects and/or arrays that have been previously written, with a reference to them when found again in the object graph (using reference equality for comparison).
```

> **Metadata**: Extra properties on JSON objects and/or arrays (that may change their schema) to enable reference preservation when round-tripping, those properties are only meant to be understand by the `JsonSerializer`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Metadata**: Extra properties on JSON objects and/or arrays (that may change their schema) to enable reference preservation when round-tripping. These additional properties are only meant to be understood by the `JsonSerializer`.  
```

# Motivation

> Currently there is no mechanism to prevent infinite looping in circular objects (while serializing) nor to preserve references that round-trip when using System.Text.Json.

Reviewer: nit:
```suggestion
Currently, there is no mechanism to avoid infinite loops while serializing .NET object instances that contain cycles nor to preserve references that round-trip when using `System.Text.Json`. The `JsonSerializer` throws a `JsonException` when a loop is found within the object graph.
```

Reviewer 2: I would add "As of now" to clearly specify what's the behavior today.
```suggestion
Currently, there is no mechanism to avoid infinite loops while serializing .NET object instances that contain cycles nor to preserve references that round-trip when using `System.Text.Json`. As of now, the `JsonSerializer` throws a `JsonException` when a loop is found within the object graph.
```

> This is a heavily requested feature since it is consider by many as a very common scenario, specially when serializing POCOs that came from an ORM Framework, such as Entity Framework; even though the JSON specification does not support reference loops by default. Therefore, this will be implemented as an opt-in feature (for both serialization and deserialization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a heavily requested feature since it is considered by many as a very common scenario, specially when serializing POCOs that came from an ORM Framework, such as Entity Framework; even though the JSON specification does not support reference loops by default. Therefore, this will be implemented as an opt-in feature (for both serialization and deserialization).
```

> The current solution to deal with reference loops is to rely in MaxDepth and throw a JsonException after it is exceeded. Now, this is a decent and cheap solution but we will also offer other not-so-cheap options to deal with this problem while keeping the current one in order to not affect the out-of-the-box performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current solution to deal with cycles in the object graph while serializing is to rely on `MaxDepth` and throw a `JsonException` after it is exceeded. This was done to avoid perf overhead for cycle detection in the common case. The goal is to enable the new opt-in feature with minimal impact to existing performance.

```

# Proposal

```cs
namespace System.Text.Json.Serialization
{
    /// <summary>

>     /// This class defines the various ways the <see cref="JsonSerializer"/> can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.

Reviewer: nit: Add line breaks to avoid having things cut off on the side (requiring horizontal scrolling)

>     /// This class defines the various ways the <see cref="JsonSerializer"/> can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    /// This class defines the various ways the <see cref="JsonSerializer"/> 
    /// can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.
```

    /// </summary>
    public sealed class ReferenceHandling
    {
        public static ReferenceHandling Default { get; }
        public static ReferenceHandling Preserve { get; }
        // TODO: decide if we keep or remove this option.
        public static ReferenceHandling Ignore { get; }
    }
}

> namespace System.Text.Json

Reviewer: nit: Move this first (above the `System.Text.Json.Serialization` and the `ReferenceHandling` type).

{
    public partial class JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        public ReferenceHandling ReferenceHandling { get; set; } = ReferenceHandling.Default;
    }
}
```

> See also the [internal implementation details](https://gist.github.com/Jozkee/b0922ef609f7a942f00ac2c93a976ff1).

Reviewer: **Question:** What happens if someone explicitly sets `ReferenceHandling` to null, or uses the `default`/`null` `JsonSerializerOptions`?

Reviewer 2: My guess is that we should throw `InvalidOperationException` or alike.

## In depth
* **Default**: 

>    * **On Serialize**: Throw a `JsonException` when `MaxDepth` is exceeded, this may occur by either a reference loop or by passing a very deep object. This option will not affect the performance of the serializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * **On Serialize**: Throw a `JsonException` when `MaxDepth` is exceeded. This may occur by either a reference loop or by passing a very deep object. This option will not affect the performance of the serializer.
```

>    * **On Deserialize**: Metadata properties will not be consumed, therefore they will be treated as regular properties that can map to a real property using `JsonPropertyName` or be added to the `JsonExtensionData` dictionary.

Reviewer: nit: 
```suggestion
   * **On Deserialize**: Metadata properties will not be consumed, therefore they will be treated as regular properties that can map to a real property using `JsonPropertyName` or be added to the `JsonExtensionData` overflow dictionary.
```

* **Preserve**:

>   * **On Serialize**: When writing complex types, the serializer also writes them metadata ($id, $values and $ref) properties in order re-use them by writing a reference to the object or array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **On Serialize**: When writing complex types (i.e. POCOs/non-primitive types), the serializer also writes the metadata ($id, $values and $ref) properties in order to reference them later by writing a reference to the previously written JSON object or array.
```

>   * **On Deserialize**: While the other options show no effect on Deserialization, `Preserve` does affect its behavior with the following: Metadata will be expected (although is not mandatory) and the deserializer will try to understand it. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **On Deserialize**: While the other options have no effect on deserialization, `Preserve` does affect its behavior, as follows: Metadata will be expected (although is not mandatory) and the deserializer will try to understand it. 
```

* **Ignore**:
  * **On Serialize**: Ignores (skips writing) the property/element where the reference loop is detected.
  * **On Deserialize**: Metadata properties will not be consumed, therefore they will be treated as regular properties that can map to a real property using `JsonPropertyName` or be added to the `JsonExtensionData` dictionary.

> For System.Text.Json, the goal is to stick to the same *metadata* semantics for preserve from Newtonsoft.Json and provide a similar usage in `JsonSerializerOptions` that encompasses the needed options (i.e. provide reference preservation).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For `System.Text.Json`, the goal is to stick to the same *metadata* syntax used when preserving references using `Newtonsoft.Json` and provide a similar usage in `JsonSerializerOptions` that encompasses the needed options (i.e. provide reference preservation). This way, JSON output produced by `Newtonsoft.Json` can be deserialized by `System.Text.Json` and vice versa.
```

This API is exposing the `ReferenceHandling` property as a class, to be extensible in the future; and provide built-in static instances of `Default` and `Preserve` that are useful to enable the most common behaviors by just setting those in `JsonSerializerOptions.ReferenceHandling`.

> With `ReferenceHandling` being a class, we can exclude things that, as of now, we are not sure are required and add them later based on customer feedback. For example, the `Object` and `Array` granularity of `Newtonsoft.Json's` `PreserveReferencesHandling` or the `ReferenceLoopHandling.Ignore` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `ReferenceHandling` being a class, we can exclude things that, as of now, we are not sure are required and add them later based on customer feedback. For example, the `Object` and `Array` granularity of `Newtonsoft.Json's` `PreserveReferencesHandling` feature or the `ReferenceLoopHandling.Ignore` option.
```

## Compatibility

> The next table show the combination of Newtonsoft's **ReferenceLoopHandling** and **PreserveReferencesHandling** and how to get its equivalent on System.Text.Json's *ReferenceHandling*:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next table show the combination of Newtonsoft's **ReferenceLoopHandling** (RLH) and **PreserveReferencesHandling** (PRH) and how to get its equivalent on System.Text.Json's *ReferenceHandling*:
```

|       RLH\PRH |      None |              All |          Objects |           Arrays |
|--------------:|----------:|-----------------:|-----------------:|-----------------:|
|     **Error** | *Default* | future (overlap) | future (overlap) | future (overlap) |
|    **Ignore** |  *Ignore* | future (overlap) | future (overlap) | future (overlap) |
| **Serialize** |    future |       *Preserve* |           future |           future |

Notes: 

> * Newtonsoft's `MetadataPropertyHandling.ReadAhead` will not be supported in this first effort.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We are deferring adding support for Newtonsoft's `MetadataPropertyHandling.ReadAhead` for now.
```

> * `Objects` and `Arrays` granularity may apply to both, Serialization and Deserialization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `Objects` and `Arrays` granularity may apply to both, serialization and deserialization.
```

> * (overlap) means that preserve references will co-exist with Reference Loop Handling and we will need to define how to resolve that (On Newtonsoft.Json, `PreserveReferencesHandling` takes precedence); see [example](#using-a-custom-referencehandling-to-show-possible-future-usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (overlap) means that preserve references co-exists along with reference loop handling and we will need to define how to resolve that (On `Newtonsoft.Json`, `PreserveReferencesHandling` takes precedence); see [example](#using-a-custom-referencehandling-to-show-possible-future-usage).
```

# Examples

> Having the following class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's assume you have the following class:
```

```cs
class Employee 
{ 
    string Name { get; set; }
    Employee Manager { get; set; }
    List<Employee> Subordinates { get; set; }
}
```

> ## Using Default on Serialize

Reviewer: Can you add an example for default deserialize (where you have metadata in the payload)?

Reviewer 2: With the point of show how properties will add to `JsonExtensionData`, in case there is any?

Reviewer: Yes and also if the .NET object uses the reserved keywords as property names (like `$id`), they will get matched with it and the value deserialized.

Reviewer 2: Done, see https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/354/files#diff-862e8417d479d30d1ade2dd9acf21333R114

```cs
private Employee bob = new Employee { Name = "Bob" };
private Employee angela = new Employee { Name = "Angela" };

public static void WriteObject()
{
    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(angela, options);
    // Throws JsonException - 
    // "A possible object cycle was detected which is not supported. 
    // This can either be due to a cycle or if the object depth is larger than the maximum allowed depth of 64."
}
```

## Using Ignore on Serialize
```cs
private Employee bob = new Employee { Name = "Bob" };
private Employee angela = new Employee { Name = "Angela" };

angela.Manager = bob;
bob.Subordinates = new List<Employee>{ angela };
```

> On System.Text.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `System.Text.Json`:
```

```cs
public static void WriteIgnoringReferenceLoops()
{
    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Ignore
        WriteIndented = true,
    };

    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(angela, options);
    Console.Write(json);
}
```

> On Newtonsoft.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `Newtonsoft.Json`:
```

```cs
public static void WriteIgnoringReferenceLoops()
{
    var settings = new JsonSerializerSettings
    {
        ReferenceLoopHandling = ReferenceLoopHandling.Ignore
        Formatting = Formatting.Indented 
    };

    string json = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(angela, settings);
    Console.Write(json);
}
```

Output:
```jsonc
{
    "Name": "Angela",
    "Manager": {
        "Name": "Bob",

>         // Note how subordinates is empty due Angela is being ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        // Note how subordinates is empty because Angela is being ignored.
```

        "Subordinates": [] 
    }
}
```

## Using Preserve on Serialize
```cs
private Employee bob = new Employee { Name = "Bob" };
private Employee angela = new Employee { Name = "Angela" };

angela.Manager = bob;
bob.Subordinates = new List<Employee>{ angela };
```

> On System.Text.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `System.Text.Json`:
```

```cs
public static void WritePreservingReference()
{
    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Preserve
        WriteIndented = true,
    };

    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(angela, options);
    Console.Write(json);
}
```

> On Newtonsoft.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `Newtonsoft.Json`:
```

    };

    string json = JsonConvert.SerializeObject(angela, settings);
    Console.Write(json);
}
```

Output:
```jsonc
{
    "$id": "1",
    "Name": "Angela",
    "Manager": {
        "$id": "2",
        "Name": "Bob",
        "Subordinates": { 
            // Note how the Subordinates' square braces are replaced with curly braces 
            // in order to include $id and $values properties, 
            // $values will now hold whatever value was meant for the Subordinates list.
            "$id": "3",
            "$values": [
                {  // Note how this object denotes reference to Angela that was previously serialized.
                    "$ref": "1"
                }
            ]
        }            
    }
}
```

## Using Preserve on Deserialize
```cs
private const string json = 
    @"{
        ""$id"": ""1"",
        ""Name"": ""Angela"",
        ""Manager"": {
            ""$id"": ""2"",
            ""Name"": ""Bob"",
            ""Subordinates"": {
                ""$id"": ""3"",
                ""$values"": [
                    { 
                        ""$ref"": ""1"" 
                    }
                ]
            }            
        }
    }";
```

> On System.Text.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `System.Text.Json`:
```

```cs
public static void ReadJsonWithPreservedReferences(){
    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Preserve
    };

    Employee angela = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Employee>(json, options);
    Console.WriteLine(object.ReferenceEquals(angela, angela.Manager.Subordinates[0])); //prints: true.
}
```

> On Newtonsoft.Json:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On `Newtonsoft.Json`:
```

```cs
public static void ReadJsonWithPreservedReferences(){
    var options = new JsonSerializerSettings
    {

>         //Newtonsoft.Json reads metadata by default, just setting the option for ilustrative purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        //Newtonsoft.Json reads metadata by default, just setting the option for illustrative purposes.
```

        MetadataPropertyHanding = MetadataPropertyHandling.Default 
    };

    Employee angela = JsonConvert.DeserializeObject<Employee>(json, settings);
    Console.WriteLine(object.ReferenceEquals(angela, angela.Manager.Subordinates[0])); //prints: true.
}
```

# Other languages

## Newtonsoft.Json

> Newtonsoft.Json contains settings that you can enable to deal with such problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Newtonsoft.Json` contains settings that you can enable to deal with such problems.
```

  * [`PreserveReferencesHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_PreserveReferencesHandling.htm)
* For Deserialization:
  * [`MetadataPropertyHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_MetadataPropertyHandling.htm)

When using `ReferenceLoopHandling.Ignore`, other objects that were already seen on the current graph branch will be ignored on serialization.

When using `PreserveReferencesHandling.All` you are signaling that your resulting JSON will contain *metadata* properties `$ref`, `$id` and `$values` which are going to act as reference identifiers (`$id`) and pointers (`$ref`). 
Now, to read back those references, you have to use `MetadataPropertyHandling.Default` to indicate that *metadata* is expected in the payload passed to the `Deserialize` method.

* Pros
  * If we opt-in for this we could provide compatibility with Newtonsoft which is always desired by the community.
* Cons
  * Quite invasive, (it affects `JsonException.Path`, `JsonSerializerOptions.IgnoreNullValues`, `JsonPropertyNameAttribute`, and Converters).

>   * This would break existing converters i.e: an array converter may expect the first token to be "[" and a preserved array starts with "{".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * This could break existing converters. For example, an array converter may expect the first token to be "[" but a preserved array starts with "{".
```

    * perhaps converters are more feasible with the JSON path implementation.
  * We will now accept that an array comes in valid format when starts with a curly brace "{"; below issue is related to guard against NRE when this happens:
    * https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/41839

## dojo toolkit (JavaScript framework)
https://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.10/dojox/json/ref.html

Similar: https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-cyclic 

> * id-based (ignore this approach since is the same the one of Newtonsoft.Json)

Reviewer: > ignore this approach since is the same the one of Newtonsoft.Json

What do you mean by this?

Is it the same as Newtonsoft OR different? Did you mean this?
```suggestion
* id-based (ignore this approach since it is the same as `Newtonsoft.Json`)
```

* path-based

>   * "\#" denotes the root of the object and then uses semantics inspired in JSONPath.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * "\#" denotes the root of the object and then uses semantics inspired by JSONPath.
```

  * It does not uses `$id` nor `$values` metadata, therefore, everything can be referenced.
  * Pros
    * It looks cleaner. 
    * Only disruptive (weird) edge case would be a reference to an array i.e: { "MyArray": { "$ref": "#manager.subordinates" } }.
  * Cons
    * Path value will become too long on very deep objects.
    * Storing all the complex types could become very expensive, are we going to store also primitive types?
    * This would break existing converters when handling reference to an array.

>     * Not compatible with Newtonsoft.Json.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Not compatible with `Newtonsoft.Json`.
```

  
## flatted (JavaScript module) (probably not worth it)
https://github.com/WebReflection/flatted

> * While stringifying, all Objects, including Arrays, and strings, are flattened out and replaced as unique index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* While stringifying, all Objects, including Arrays and strings, are flattened out and replaced with unique index.
```

Reviewer 2: I extracted that paragraph from the official GitHub repo, but ok, I can take the suggestion.
https://github.com/WebReflection/flatted#how-does-it-work-

* Once parsed, all indexes will be replaced through the flattened collection.
* It has 23M downloads per month.
* Every single value (primitive and complex) is preserved.
* Cons:
  * It does not look like JSON anymore.

## Jackson (Java)
https://www.baeldung.com/jackson-bidirectional-relationships-and-infinite-recursion

> * Let you annotate your class with @JsonIdentityInfo where you can define a class property that will be used to further represent the object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Let you annotate your class with `@JsonIdentityInfo` where you can define a class property that will be used to further represent the object.
```

## golang 
* Circularity detection will start to occur after a fixed threshold of 1,000 depth.

>   * (https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/187920/), The fix is about detecting circular references after a threshold of 1,000 and throw when found in order to prevent a non-recoverable Stack Overflow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * [This fix](https://go-review.googlesource.com/c/go/+/187920/) is about detecting circular references after a threshold of 1,000 and throw when found in order to prevent a non-recoverable stack overflow.
```

# Ground rules

> As a rule of thumb, we throw on all cases where the JSON payload being read contains any metadata that is impossible to create with the `JsonSerializer` (i.e. it was hand modified). However, this conflicts with feature parity in Newtonsoft.Json; those scenarios are described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a rule of thumb, we throw on all cases where the JSON payload being read contains any metadata that is impossible to create with the `JsonSerializer` (i.e. it was hand modified). Since `System.Text.Json` is more strict, it means that certain payloads that `Newtonsoft.Json` could process, will fail with `System.Text.Json`. Specific example scenarios where that could happen are described below.
```

## Reference objects ($ref)

* Regular property **before** `$ref`.
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: `$ref` is ignored if a regular property is previously found in the object.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Reference objects cannot contain other properties.

```json
{
    "$id": "1",
    "Name": "Angela",
    "Manager": {
        "Name": "Bob",
        "$ref": "1"
    }
}
```

* Regular property **after** `$ref`.
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Throw - Additional content found in JSON reference object.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Reference objects cannot contain other properties.

```json
{
    "$id": "1",
    "Name": "Angela",
    "Manager":{
        "$ref": "1",
        "Name": "Angela" 
    }
}
```
 
* Metadata property **before** `$ref`:

>   * **Newtonsoft.Json**: `$id` is disregarded and the reference is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: `$id` is disregarded, and the reference is set.
```

```json
[
    {
        "$id": "1",
        "Name": "Angela"
    },
    {
        "$id": "1",
        "Name": "Bob"
    }
]
```

## Preserved arrays
A regular array is `[ elem1, elem2 ]`.
A preserved array is written in the next format `{ "$id": "1", "$values": [ elem1, elem2 ] }`

* Preserved array does not contain any metadata:
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Throws - Cannot deserialize the current JSON object into type 'System.Collections.Generic.List`1
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.

  ```json
  {}
  ```

* Preserved array only contains $id:
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Throws - Cannot deserialize the current JSON object into type 'System.Collections.Generic.List`1
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1"
  }
  ```

* Preserved array only contains `$values`:
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Does not throw and the payload evaluates to the array in the property.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved arrays cannot lack an identifier.

  ```json
  {
      "$values": []
  }
  ```

> * Preserved array $values property contains null

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Preserved array `$values` property is null
```

  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Throw - Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": null
  }
  ```

> * Preserved array $values property contains value

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Preserved array `$values` property is a primitive value
```

  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.

>   * **S.T.Json**: Throw - The JSON value could not be converted to TArray. Path: $.$values

Reviewer: Why is the error message here different than the `null` case above?

Reviewer 2: Because this error is the same as if you were trying to set a primitive (which uses converter) into a collection. I didn't want to add a condition into the converter that would check for every primitive type. It sounds like too much overhead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.
```

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": 1
  }
  ```

> * Preserved array $values property contains object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Preserved array `$values` property contains object
```

  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - The property is already part of a preserved array object, cannot be read as a preserved array.

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": {}
  }
  ```

## JSON Objects if not Collection (Class | Struct | Dictionary) - On Deserialize (and Serialize?)

* `$ref` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the only property in the object.

* `$id` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the first property in the object

* `$values` **Not Valid**

* `$.*` **Valid**

> Note: For Dictionary keys on serialize, should we allow serializing keys `$id`, `$ref` and `$values`? if we allow it, then there is a potential round-tripping issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: For Dictionary keys on serialize, should we allow serializing keys `$id`, `$ref` and `$values`? If we allow it, then there is a potential round-tripping issue.
```

Sample of similar issue with `DictionaryKeyPolicy`:
```cs
public static void TestDictionary_Collision() 
{
    var root = new Dictionary<string, int>();
    root["helloWorld"] = 100;
    root["HelloWorld"] = 200;

    var opts = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        DictionaryKeyPolicy = JsonNamingPolicy.CamelCase
    };

    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(root, opts);
    Console.WriteLine(json);
    /* Output:
    {"helloWorld":100,"helloWorld":200} */

    // Round tripping issue
    root = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Dictionary<string, int>>(json);
}
```

## JSON Object if Collection - On Deserialize

* `$ref` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the only property in the object.

* `$id` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the first property in the object.

* `$values` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be after `$id`

* `$.*` **Not Valid**

## Immutable types

> Since these types are created with the help of an internal converter, and they are not parsed until the entire block of JSON finishes; nested reference to these types is impossible to identify, unless you re-scan the resulting object, which is too expensive.

Reviewer: Add a note about what `Newtonsoft.Json` does.

Reviewer 2: Done, see https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/354/files#diff-862e8417d479d30d1ade2dd9acf21333R648

> With that said, the deserializer will throw when it reads `$id` on any of these types; but regardless of that, when writing those types, they are going to be preserved as any other collection type (`{ "$id": "1", "$values": [...] }`) since those types can still being parsed into a collection type that it is supported.

Reviewer: This means the `JsonSerializer` will produce a payload that the deserializer can't process (won't round-trip). Please make a note of that.

```suggestion
With that said, the deserializer will throw when it reads `$id` on any of these types. When serializing (i.e. writing) those types, however, they are going to be preserved as any other collection type (`{ "$id": "1", "$values": [...] }`) since those types can still be parsed into a collection type that is supported.
```

* **Immutable types**: i.e: `ImmutableList` and `ImmutableDictionary`

> * **System.Array**

Reviewer: nit: And mention `T[]`

Reviewer 2: What about this?
```suggestion
* **System.Array** i.e: `Array<Foo>` and `Foo[]`
```

Reviewer: > What about this?

Sounds good, but I wouldn't use `Foo`, but instead use `T` for the generic type placeholder.

## Value types

* **Serialization**: 

> The serializer emits an `$id` for every JSON complex type, that means that if you have a custom struct (which is value type), the serializer will append an `$id` to it, however, there will never be a reference to those `$id`s, since by default it uses `ReferenceEquals` when comparing the objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The serializer emits an `$id` for every JSON complex type. That means that if you have a custom struct (which is value type), the serializer will append an `$id` to the JSON when serializing it. However, there will never be a reference to those `$ids`, since by default it uses `ReferenceEquals` when comparing the objects.
```

        angela, 
        angela 
    };

    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions 
    { 
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Preserve
    };

    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(employees, options);
    Console.WriteLine(json);
}

Output:
```json
{
    "$id": "1",
    "$values": [
        {
            "$id": "2",
            "Name": "Angela"
        },
        {
            "$id": "3",
            "Name": "Angela"
        }
    ]
}
```

* **Deserialization**:
The deserializer will throw when it reads `$ref` within a property that matches to a value type (such as a struct) and `ReferenceHandling.Preserve` is set. 

Example:
```cs
public static void DeserializeStructs()
{
    string json = @"
    {
        ""$id"": ""1"",
        ""$values"": [
            {
                ""$id"": ""2"",
                ""Name"": ""Angela""
            },
            {
                ""$ref"": ""2""
            }
        ]
    }";

    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions 
    { 
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Preserve
    };

    List<EmployeeStruct> root = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<List<EmployeeStruct>>(json, options);
    // Throws JsonException.
}
```

> In other words, having a `$ref` property in a struct, is never emitted by the serializer and read such thing (by manually changing the JSON payload) is not supported by the deserializer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, having a `$ref` property in a struct, is never emitted by the serializer and reading such a payload (for instance, if the payload was hand-crafted) is not supported by the deserializer.
```

## Interaction with JsonPropertyNameAttribute

> Having the following class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's say you have the following class:
```

```cs
private class EmployeeAnnotated
{
    [JsonPropertyName("$id")]
    public string Identifier { get; set; }
    [JsonPropertyName("$ref")]
    public string Reference { get; set; }
    [JsonPropertyName("$values")]
    public List<EmployeeAnnotated> Values { get; set; }

    public string Name { get; set; }
}
```

> Either on Serialization or Deserialization:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both on serialization and deserialization:
```

```cs
public static void DeSerializeWithPreserve()
{
    var root = new EmployeeAnnotated();
    var opts = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        ReferenceHandling = ReferenceHandling.Preserve
    };

    //Throw JsonException - PropertyName cannot start with '$' when Preserve References is enabled.
    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(root, opts);
    
    //Also throws the same exception.
    EmployeeAnnotated obj = JsonSerializer.Deserialize(json, opts);
}
```

# Future

> Things that may build on top based on customer feedback:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Things that we may want to consider building on top based on customer feedback:
```

> * (De)Serialize can define its own Preserve References Handling behavior each (i.e: you could opt-out form Preserve Reference on serialization but opt-in for read them on deserialization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* (De)Serialize can define its own, independently configurable reference handling behavior (for example, you could opt-out from preserve reference on serialization but opt-in for reading them on deserialization).
```

> * Expose a `ReferenceResolver` to override the logic that preserves references (Create your own implementation of a reference resolver).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Expose a `ReferenceResolver` to override the logic that preserves references (the caller creates their own implementation of a reference resolver).
```

> * Expose the `ReferenceResolver` in Converters to have access to the map of references.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Expose the `ReferenceResolver` in `Converters` to have access to the map of references.
```

> * Create `JsonReferenceHandlingAttribute` to enable to annotate properties and classes with their own isolated ReferenceHandling behavior (I cut-off the support for this due the constant checking for attributes was causing too much perf overhead on the main path, maybe we can try moving the attribute check to the warm-up method to reduce the runtime increase).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create `JsonReferenceHandlingAttribute` to enable annotating properties and classes with their own isolated `ReferenceHandling` behavior (I am deferring this feature because the constant checking for attributes was causing too much perf overhead on the main path, but maybe we can try moving the attribute check to the warm-up method to reduce the runtime increase).
```

```cs
// Example of a class annotated with JsonReferenceHandling attributes.
[JsonReferenceHandling(ReferenceHandling.Preserve)]
public class Employee { 
    public string Name { get; set; }

    [JsonReferenceHandling(ReferenceHandling.Ignore)]
    public Employee Manager { get; set; }
    
    public List<Employee> Subordinates { get; set; }
}
```

> ## Using a custom `ReferenceHandling` (to show possible future usage).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Using a custom `ReferenceHandling` (shows potential API evolution and usage).
```

```cs
public static void WriteIgnoringReferenceLoopsAndReadPreservedReferences()
{
    var bob = new Employee { Name = "Bob" };
    var angela = new Employee { Name = "Angela" };

    angela.Manager = bob;
    bob.Subordinates = new List<Employee>{ angela };
    
    var allEmployees = new List<Employee>
    {
        angela,
        bob
    };

    var options = new JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        ReferenceHandling = new ReferenceHandling(
            PreserveReferencesHandling.All, // Preserve References Handling on serialization.
            PreserveReferencesHandling.All, // Preserve References Handling on deserialization.
            ReferenceLoopHandling.Ignore) // Reference Loop Handling on serialization.
        WriteIndented = true,
    };

    string json = JsonSerializer.Serialize(allEmployees, options);
    Console.Write(json);

    /* Output:
    [
        {
            "$id": "1",
            "Name": "Angela",
            "Manager": {
                "$id": "2",
                "Name": "Bob",
                "Subordinates": {
                    "$id": "3",

>                     // Note how subordinates is empty due Angela is being ignored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                    // Note how subordinates is empty because Angela is being ignored.
```

                    // Alternatively: we may let PreserveReferenceHandling take precedence and write the reference instead?
                    "$values": []
                }
            }
        },
        {
            // Note how element 2 is written as a reference 
            // since was previously seen in allEmployees[0].Manager
            "$ref": "2"
        }
    ]
    */

    allEmployees = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<List<Employee>>(json, options);
    Console.WriteLine(allEmployees[0].Manager == allEmployees[1]); 
    /* Output: true */
}
```

# Notes

> 1. MaxDepth validation will not be affected by `ReferenceHandling.Preserve`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. `MaxDepth` validation will not be affected by `ReferenceHandling.Preserve`.
```

> 2. We are merging the Newtonsoft.Json types [`ReferenceLoopHandling`]("https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_ReferenceLoopHandling.htm"), [`MetadataPropertyHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_MetadataPropertyHandling.htm) (without `ReadAhead`), and [`PreserveReferencesHandling`]("https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_PreserveReferencesHandling.htm") (without the granularity of `Objects` and `Arrays`) into one single class; `ReferenceHandling`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. We are merging the `Newtonsoft.Json` types [`ReferenceLoopHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_ReferenceLoopHandling.htm), [`MetadataPropertyHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_MetadataPropertyHandling.htm) (without `ReadAhead`), and [`PreserveReferencesHandling`](https://www.newtonsoft.com/json/help/html/T_Newtonsoft_Json_PreserveReferencesHandling.htm) (without the granularity of `Objects` and `Arrays`) into one single class; `ReferenceHandling`.
```

> 3. While Immutable types and `System.Array`s can be Serialized with Preserve semantics, they will not be supported when trying to Deserialize them as a reference; those types are created with the help of an internal converter, and they are not parsed until the entire block of JSON finishes, nested reference to these types is impossible to identify, unless you re-scan the resulting object, which is too expensive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. While immutable types and `System.Arrays` can be serialized with preserve semantics, they will not be supported when trying to deserialize them as a reference. Those types are created with the help of an internal converter and they are not parsed until the entire block of JSON finishes. Nested reference to these types is impossible to identify, unless you re-scan the resulting object, which is too expensive.
```

> 4. Value types, such as structs that contain preserve semantics, will not be supported when Deserialized as well; this is because the serializer will never signal a reference object to those types, doing such thing implies boxing of value types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Value types, such as structs that contain preserve semantics, will not be supported when deserializing as well. This is because the serializer will never emit a reference object to those types and doing so implies boxing of value types.
```

> 5. Additional features, such as Converter support, `ReferenceResolver`, `JsonPropertyAttribute.IsReference` and `JsonPropertyAttribute.ReferenceLoopHandling`,  that build on top of `ReferenceLoopHandling` and `PreserveReferencesHandling` were considered but they can be added in the future based on customer requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Additional features, such as converter support, `ReferenceResolver`, `JsonPropertyAttribute.IsReference` and `JsonPropertyAttribute.ReferenceLoopHandling`,  that build on top of `ReferenceLoopHandling` and `PreserveReferencesHandling` were considered but they can be added in the future based on customer requests.
```

> 6. We are still looking for evidence that backs up supporting `ReferenceHandling.Ignore`, this option will not ship if said evidence is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. We are still looking for evidence that backs up supporting `ReferenceHandling.Ignore`. This option will not ship if said evidence is not found.
```

- [Future](#future)
- [Notes](#notes)

# Terminology

**Reference loops**: Also referred as circular references, loops occur when a property of a .NET object refers to the object itself, either directly (a -> a) or indirectly (a -> b -> a). They also occur when the element of an array refers to the array itself (arr[0] -> arr). Multiple occurrences of the same reference do not imply a cycle.

**Preserve duplicated references**: Semantically represent objects and/or arrays that have been previously written, with a reference to them when found again in the object graph (using reference equality for comparison).

**Metadata**: Extra properties on JSON objects and/or arrays (that may change their schema) to enable reference preservation when round-tripping. These additional properties are only meant to be understood by the `JsonSerializer`.  

# Motivation

Currently, there is no mechanism to avoid infinite loops while serializing .NET object instances that contain cycles nor to preserve references that round-trip when using `System.Text.Json`. The `JsonSerializer` throws a `JsonException` when a loop is found within the object graph.

> This is a heavily requested feature since it is considered by many as a very common scenario, specially when serializing POCOs that came from an ORM Framework, such as Entity Framework; even though the JSON specification does not support reference loops by default. Therefore, this will be implemented as an opt-in feature (for both serialization and deserialization).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a heavily requested feature since it is considered by many as a very common scenario, especially when serializing POCOs that came from an ORM Framework, such as Entity Framework; even though the JSON specification does not support reference loops by default. Therefore, this will be implemented as an opt-in feature (for both serialization and deserialization).
```

    /// can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.
    /// </summary>
    public sealed class ReferenceHandling
    {
        public static ReferenceHandling Default { get; }
        public static ReferenceHandling Preserve { get; }
        // TODO: decide if we keep or remove this option.
        public static ReferenceHandling Ignore { get; }
    }
}

namespace System.Text.Json
{
    public partial class JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        public ReferenceHandling ReferenceHandling { get; set; } = ReferenceHandling.Default;
    }
}
```
See also the [internal implementation details](https://gist.github.com/Jozkee/b0922ef609f7a942f00ac2c93a976ff1).

## In depth
* **Default**: 
   * **On Serialize**: Throw a `JsonException` when `MaxDepth` is exceeded. This may occur by either a reference loop or by passing a very deep object. This option will not affect the performance of the serializer.
   * **On Deserialize**: Metadata properties will not be consumed, therefore they will be treated as regular properties that can map to a real property using `JsonPropertyName` or be added to the `JsonExtensionData` overflow dictionary.

* **Preserve**:

>   * **On Serialize**: When writing complex types (i.e. POCOs/non-primitive types), the serializer also writes the metadata ($id, $values and $ref) properties in order to reference them later by writing a reference to the previously written JSON object or array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * **On Serialize**: When writing complex types (i.e. POCOs/non-primitive types), the serializer also writes the metadata (`$id`, `$values` and `$ref`) properties in order to reference them later by writing a reference to the previously written JSON object or array.
```

    * https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/issues/41839

## dojo toolkit (JavaScript framework)
https://dojotoolkit.org/reference-guide/1.10/dojox/json/ref.html

Similar: https://www.npmjs.com/package/json-cyclic 

* id-based (ignore this approach since it is the same as `Newtonsoft.Json`)
* path-based
  * "\#" denotes the root of the object and then uses semantics inspired by JSONPath.
  * It does not uses `$id` nor `$values` metadata, therefore, everything can be referenced.
  * Pros
    * It looks cleaner. 
    * Only disruptive (weird) edge case would be a reference to an array i.e: { "MyArray": { "$ref": "#manager.subordinates" } }.
  * Cons
    * Path value will become too long on very deep objects.
    * Storing all the complex types could become very expensive, are we going to store also primitive types?
    * This would break existing converters when handling reference to an array.
    * Not compatible with `Newtonsoft.Json`.
  
## flatted (JavaScript module) (probably not worth it)
https://github.com/WebReflection/flatted

> * While stringifying, all Objects, including Arrays and strings, are flattened out and replaced with unique index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* While stringifying, all Objects, including Arrays and strings, are flattened out and replaced with a unique index.
```

# Table of Contents

- [Terminology](#terminology)
- [Motivation](#motivation)
- [Proposal](#proposal)
  - [In depth](#in-depth)
  - [Compatibility](#compatibility)
- [Examples](#examples)

>   - [Using Default on Serialize](#using-default-on-serialize)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - [Using Default on Deserialize](#using-default-on-deserialize)
  - [Using Default on Serialize](#using-default-on-serialize)
```

The current solution to deal with cycles in the object graph while serializing is to rely on `MaxDepth` and throw a `JsonException` after it is exceeded. This was done to avoid perf overhead for cycle detection in the common case. The goal is to enable the new opt-in feature with minimal impact to existing performance.

# Proposal

```cs
namespace System.Text.Json
{
    public partial class JsonSerializerOptions
    {
        public ReferenceHandling ReferenceHandling { get; set; } = ReferenceHandling.Default;
    }
}

namespace System.Text.Json.Serialization
{
    /// <summary>
    /// This class defines the various ways the <see cref="JsonSerializer"/> 
    /// can deal with references on Serialization and Deserialization.
    /// </summary>
    public sealed class ReferenceHandling
    {
        public static ReferenceHandling Default { get; }
        public static ReferenceHandling Preserve { get; }
        // TODO: decide if we keep or remove this option.
        public static ReferenceHandling Ignore { get; }
    }
}
```
See also the [internal implementation details](https://gist.github.com/Jozkee/b0922ef609f7a942f00ac2c93a976ff1).

> ## In depth

Reviewer 3: nit: this title is a bit confusing - my mind first went to serialization depth (maybe it's just me) 

Consider "A closer look `Default`, `Preserve`, and `Ignore` reference handling options" or something...

Notes: 
* We are deferring adding support for Newtonsoft's `MetadataPropertyHandling.ReadAhead` for now.
* `Objects` and `Arrays` granularity may apply to both, serialization and deserialization.
* (overlap) means that preserve references co-exists along with reference loop handling and we will need to define how to resolve that (On `Newtonsoft.Json`, `PreserveReferencesHandling` takes precedence); see [example](#using-a-custom-referencehandling-to-show-possible-future-usage).

# Examples

## Using Default on Deserialize
```cs
class Employee 
{ 
    [JsonPropertyName("$id")]
    public string Identifier { get; set; }
    public Employee Manager { get; set; }

    [JsonExtensionData]
    public IDictionary<string, object> ExtensionData { get; set; }
}

private const string json = 
    @"{
        ""$id"": ""1"",
        ""Name"": ""Angela"",
        ""Manager"": {
            ""$id"": ""2"",
            ""Name"": ""Bob"",
            ""Manager"": {
                ""$ref"": ""2""
            }
        }
    }";
```

```cs
public static void ReadObject()
{
    Employee angela = JsonSerializer.Deserialize<Employee>(json);

>     Console.WriteLine(angela.Identifier) //prints: "1".

Reviewer: Missing semi-colons in the sample.

>     Console.WriteLine(angela.Identifier) //prints: "1".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Console.WriteLine(angela.Identifier); //prints: "1".
```

>     Console.WriteLine(angela.Manager.Identifier) //prints: "2".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Console.WriteLine(angela.Manager.Identifier); //prints: "2".
```

>     Console.WriteLine(angela.Manager.Manager.ExtensionData["$ref"]) //prints: "2".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Console.WriteLine(angela.Manager.Manager.ExtensionData["$ref"]); //prints: "2".
```

Same above.

}
```

Note how you can annotate .Net properties to use properties that are meant for metadata and are added to the `JsonExtensionData` overflow dictionary, in case there is any, when opting-out of the `ReferenceHanding.Preserve` feature.

> For the next samples let's assume you have the following class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the next samples, let's assume you have the following class:
```

  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1"
  }
  ```

* Preserved array only contains `$values`:
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Does not throw and the payload evaluates to the array in the property.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved arrays cannot lack an identifier.

  ```json
  {
      "$values": []
  }
  ```

* Preserved array `$values` property is null
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Throw - Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": null
  }
  ```

* Preserved array `$values` property is a primitive value
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - The JSON value could not be converted to TArray. Path: $.$values

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": 1
  }
  ```

* Preserved array `$values` property contains object
  * **Newtonsoft.Json**: Unexpected token while deserializing object: EndObject. Path ''.

>   * **S.T.Json**: Throw - The property is already part of a preserved array object, cannot be read as a preserved array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * **S.T.Json**: Throw - Preserved array $values property was not present or its value is not an array.
```

  ```json
  {
      "$id": "1",
      "$values": {}
  }
  ```

## JSON Objects if not Collection (Class | Struct | Dictionary) - On Deserialize (and Serialize?)

* `$ref` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the only property in the object.

* `$id` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the first property in the object

* `$values` **Not Valid**

* `$.*` **Valid**

> Note: For Dictionary keys on serialize, should we allow serializing keys `$id`, `$ref` and `$values`? If we allow it, then there is a potential round-tripping issue.

Reviewer 3: If the implementation wouldn't otherwise do the string comparisons, I wouldn't introduce this check for essentially every dictionary key.
It seems odd to not serialize given content. Maybe the caller should pay the price of not roundtripping for those cases. Does Newtonsoft.Json allow these keys?

Reviewer 2: As per further discussions, when your enable `Preserve`, properties with leading $ will be forbidden; to workaround that you will need to escape the leading $. 
So we can add an update comment that states that our serializer will never produce a property with leading $ without escaping the $.

Reviewer 2: See resolution a [few lines below](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/pull/354/files#diff-862e8417d479d30d1ade2dd9acf21333R645) (line 645)

> Note: For Dictionary keys on serialize, should we allow serializing keys `$id`, `$ref` and `$values`? If we allow it, then there is a potential round-tripping issue.

Reviewer 3: In addition to the few questions sprinkled around the doc in their respective discussion contexts, I'd add an open questions recap at the end of the doc so we can recall them.

}
```

## JSON Object if Collection - On Deserialize

* `$ref` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the only property in the object.

* `$id` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be the first property in the object.

* `$values` **Valid** under conditions:
  * must be after `$id`

* `$.*` **Not Valid**

## Immutable types
Since these types are created with the help of an internal converter, and they are not parsed until the entire block of JSON finishes; nested reference to these types is impossible to identify, unless you re-scan the resulting object, which is too expensive.

With that said, the deserializer will throw when it reads `$id` on any of these types. When serializing (i.e. writing) those types, however, they are going to be preserved as any other collection type (`{ "$id": "1", "$values": [...] }`) since those types can still be parsed into a collection type that is supported.

Note: By the same principle, `Newtonsoft.Json` does not support parsing JSON arrays into immutables as well.
Note 2: When using immutable types and `ReferenceHandling.Preserve`, you will not be able to generate payloads that are capables of round-tripping.

> * **Immutable types**: i.e: `ImmutableList` and `ImmutableDictionary`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* **Immutable types**: e.g. `ImmutableList` and `ImmutableDictionary`
```

Reviewer 2: I always though i.e. stands for "in example".

> * **System.Array**: i.e: `Array<T>` and `T[]`

Reviewer 3: Are collections that don't implement `IList`/`IDictionary`, but don't use internal converters--like `Stack<T>` and `HashSet<T>`--supported for this feature?

Reviewer 2: Yes, all collections, as long as they don't rely on a converter, should be compatible with the feature.

3. While immutable types and `System.Arrays` can be serialized with preserve semantics, they will not be supported when trying to deserialize them as a reference. Those types are created with the help of an internal converter and they are not parsed until the entire block of JSON finishes. Nested reference to these types is impossible to identify, unless you re-scan the resulting object, which is too expensive.
4. Value types, such as structs that contain preserve semantics, will not be supported when deserializing as well. This is because the serializer will never emit a reference object to those types and doing so implies boxing of value types.
5. Additional features, such as converter support, `ReferenceResolver`, `JsonPropertyAttribute.IsReference` and `JsonPropertyAttribute.ReferenceLoopHandling`,  that build on top of `ReferenceLoopHandling` and `PreserveReferencesHandling` were considered but they can be added in the future based on customer requests.

> 6. We are still looking for evidence that backs up supporting `ReferenceHandling.Ignore`, this option will not ship if said evidence is not found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. We are still looking for evidence that backs up supporting `ReferenceHandling.Ignore`. This option will not ship if said evidence is not found.
```
